============
Notification
============

Abstract
========

Social site needs some ways for notification of something to users.

This document defines a spec of general notification system in Societo.

Some other systems (includes non web application) prepare such a system. This spec are inspired the following implementations:

* Ubuntu Notify OSD
* Growl
* Facebook
* Twitter
* GitHub
* Notification Center in iOS5
* Notification Manager in Android OS

Features
========

This document defines the following features:

* Registering notification
* Displaying notification
* Selecting notification method
* Add notification method from plugin

Registering Notification
------------------------

Applications, which use notification system, add an entity item of notification with its namespace and some parameters.

Displaying Notification
-----------------------

Notification Manager
````````````````````

User can view his all notifications from the notification manager page gadget.

The gadget shows a list of notifications. An entry of notification is clickable (on clicking, the notifier application may do any actions).

All notifications have namespace information. This means that the gadget can filter notifications by using that information.

Notification Count
``````````````````

A number of notifications are provided in all pages. Concretely, you can get notification count from session data.

The count cache will be updated in the following timings:

* Logged in
* User shows the notification manager
* User triggers the specific notification action

And an available time of the cache age is an hour.

Notification Method
```````````````````

Societo supports many notification methods that are come from plugins. So Societo doesn't define a concrete implementation of per notification method.

Applications can choose notification method what it wants. End user can also choose it when a notifier application allows user configured notifications.

Action of Notification
``````````````````````

Notification can have actions that are triggered by user action (e.g. click a notification entry).

Selecting Notification Method
-----------------------------

User can configure and select notification method from the notification config gadget. The gadget displays configurations for available gadgets.

And, administrator can add restrict to user configurable notification method from backend.

Consideration of Data
=====================

Notification
------------

* namespace
* name
* origin (member.id, optional)
* destination (member.id)
* method (array)
* parameters (array)

NotificationConfig
------------------

* member (member.id)
* namespace
* name
* method (array)
* parameters (array)

Consideration of Event
======================

On Create Notification Entry
----------------------------

The event is dispatched when Societo notifies items by using every available notification methods.

The following parameters are available:

entity (read-only)
    An entity of Notification.
notification_method (read-only)
    A current notification method name.
body
    In default, a value of this property is an empty string. An application can set a body of this event. A value of the property is used by notification methods.

On Display Summary of Notification
----------------------------------

The event is dispatched when Societo renders summary of notification.

The following parameters are available:

entity (read-only)
    An entity of Notification.
summary
    Societo renders this property as summary of notification with HTML escape. A default value is an empty string.

On Display Notification
-----------------------

The event is dispatched when Societo renders notification.

The following parameters are available:

entity (read-only)
    An entity of Notification.
body
    Societo renders this property as body of notification without HTML escapes. A default value is an empty string.

On Trigger Notification Action
------------------------------

The event is dispatched when use triggers notification action.

The following parameters are available:

entity (read-only)
    An entity of Notification.
response
    A response of notification action. Default is NULL. If a value is sat, Societo renders this value as response.

Consideration of Config
=======================

Add Available Notification from Application
-------------------------------------------

Register service in DIC with "societo.notification" tag.

That service must has the following methods:

* getNotificationNamespace()
* getNotificationName()
* getNotificationCaption()

My thought of best practice is the service also has ability as the "event_subscriber".

Add Notification Method from Application
----------------------------------------

Register service in DIC with "societo.notification.method" tag.

The service must has the following methods:

* getCaption()
* notify()

Standard Collection of Notification Methods
===========================================

Email
-----

Send E-mail from the site.

A value of subject header will be based on a summary of the notification.

A value of the body part will be based on a body of the notification.

A default sender e-mail address is site_config.admin_email. If the "sender_email_address" option is in notification, this method uses this value as sender email address.

A default receiver e-mail address is member_config.email.

A value of sender e-mail address or receiver e-mail address is empty, this method doesn't send e-mail.

HTML5 Web Notification
----------------------

Show notification by using HTML5 Web Notification. See http://dev.w3.org/2006/webapi/WebNotifications/publish/

A value of "title" is a summary of the notification.

A value of "body" is a body of the notification.

A default value of "iconUrl" is URL to favicon.ico. If the "icon_url" option is in notification, the method uses this value as iconUrl.

HTTP Request
------------

POST a JSON data to the specified URL.

A template of the JSON data is the following::

    {
        "namespace" : "",
        "name" : "",
        "summary" : "",
        "body" : "",
        "options": {}
    }

Fallback
========

Notify
------

Do nothing if the specified notifier application is undefined.

Do nothing if the specified notification method is undefined.

Display
-------

Do nothing if the specified notifier application is undefined.

Out of Scopes
=============

Approval Feature
    Notification provides a path to approval but doesn’t understand its concrete implementation.
    You can do any action on notifying so you just need to render HTML for your approval.

Bundle
======

Implementation of notification itself is in new SocietoNotificationBundle.

And some bundles will depend on this bundle but the dependencies should be "optional".
